[QUEUES] New example - use-queues-with-durable-objects.md (#10673)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/queues/examples/use-queues-with-durable-objects.md

---
title: Use Queues from Durable Objects
summary: Publish to a queue from within a Durable Object
pcx_content_type: configuration
weight: 20
layout: example
meta:
  title: Queues - Use Queues and Durable Objects
---

The following example shows you how to write a Worker script to publish to [Cloudflare Queues](/queues/) from within a [Durable Object](/durable-objects/).

Prerequisites:

* A [queue created](/queues/get-started/#3-create-a-queue) via the Cloudflare dashboard or the [wrangler CLI](/workers/wrangler/install-and-update/).
* A [configured **producer** binding](/queues/platform/configuration/#producer) in the Cloudflare dashboard or `wrangler.toml` file.
* A [Durable Object namespace binding](/workers/wrangler/configuration/#durable-objects).

Configure your `wrangler.toml` file as follows:

```toml
---
filename: wrangler.toml
---
name = "my-worker"

[[queues.producers]]
  queue = "my-queue"
  binding = "YOUR_QUEUE"

[durable_objects]
bindings = [
  { name = "YOUR_DO_CLASS", class_name = "YourDurableObject" }
]

> Configure your `wrangler.toml` file as follows:

Author: ```suggestion
```

Configure your `wrangler.toml` file as follows:
```

```toml
---
filename: wrangler.toml
---
name = "my-worker"

[[queues.producers]]
  queue = "my-queue"
  binding = "YOUR_QUEUE"

[durable_objects]
bindings = [
  { name = "YOUR_DO_CLASS", class_name = "YourDurableObject" }

> ]

Reviewer: Needs a closing ``` in the wrangler.toml example to prevent the rest of the article from bleeding in the wrangler.toml formatting

Author: Fixed!

---
title: Use Queues from Durable Objects
summary: Publish to a Queue from within a Durable Object
pcx_content_type: configuration
weight: 20
layout: example
meta:
  title: Queues - Use Queues and Durable Objects
---

The following Worker script shows how to publish to a [Cloudflare Queue](/queues/) from within a [Durable Object](/durable-objects/).

> The example requires:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Prerequisites:
```

> * That you have [created a queue](/queues/get-started/#3-create-a-queue) via the Cloudflare dashboard or the [wrangler CLI](/workers/wrangler/install-and-update/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A [queue created](/queues/get-started/#3-create-a-queue) via the Cloudflare dashboard or the [wrangler CLI](/workers/wrangler/install-and-update/).
```

> * You have [configured a **producer** binding](/queues/platform/configuration/#producer) in the Cloudflare dashboard or `wrangler.toml`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A [configured **producer** binding](/queues/platform/configuration/#producer) in the Cloudflare dashboard or `wrangler.toml` file.
```

> * A [Durable Object namespace binding](/workers/wrangler/configuration/#durable-objects) is also configured.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A [Durable Object namespace binding](/workers/wrangler/configuration/#durable-objects).
```

> The Worker script creates (or retrieves an existing) Durable Object stub based on a userId, passes request data to the Durable Object, and publishes to a queue from within the Durable Object. Importantly, the `constructor` in the Durable Object makes our `Environment` available (in scope) on `this.env` to the `fetch` handler in the Durable Object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following Worker script creates (or retrieves an existing) Durable Object stub based on a userId, passes request data to the Durable Object, and publishes to a queue from within the Durable Object. Importantly, the `constructor` in the Durable Object makes our `Environment` available (in scope) on `this.env` to the `fetch` handler in the Durable Object.
```

```ts
---
filename: src/worker.ts
---
interface Env {
  YOUR_QUEUE: Queue;
  YOUR_DO_CLASS: DurableObject;
}

export default {
  async fetch(req: Request, env: Environment): Promise<Response> {
    // We assume each Durable Object is mapped to a userId in a query parameter
    // In a production application, this will likely be a userId defined by your application
    // that you validate (and/or authenticate) first.
    let url = new URL(req.url)
    let userIdParam = url.searchParams.get("userId")

    if (userIdParam) {
      // Create (or get) a Durable Object based on that userId.
      let durableObjectId = env.YOUR_DO_CLASS.idFromName(userIdParam);

>       // Get a "stub" that allows us to call that Durable Object

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      // Get a "stub" that allows you to call that Durable Object
```

      let durableObjectStub = env.YOUR_DO_CLASS.get(durableObjectId);

      // Pass the request to that Durable Object and await the response
      // This invokes the constructor once on your Durable Object class (defined further down)
      // on the first initialization, and the fetch method on each request.

>       //

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

      // We pass the original Request to the Durable Object's fetch method
      let response = await durableObjectStub.fetch(req);

      // This would return "wrote to queue", but we could return any response.
      return response;
    }
  }
}

export class YourDurableObject implements Durable Object {
  constructor(public state: DurableObjectState, env: Env) {
      this.state = state;
      // Ensure we pass our bindings and environmental variables into
      // each Durable Object when it is initialized
      this.env = env;
    }
  }

  async fetch(request: Request) {
    // Error handling elided for brevity.
    // Publish to our queue
    await this.env.YOUR_QUEUE.send({
      id: this.state.id // Write the ID of the Durable Object to our queue
      // Write any other properties to our queue
    });

    return new Response("wrote to queue")
  }
}
```

The example Worker script above assumes a `wrangler.toml` as follows:

```toml
---

> filename: wrangler.toml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> ---

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

name = "my-worker"

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

[[queues.producers]]
  queue = "my-queue"

>   binding = "YOUR_QUEUE"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> [durable_objects]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> bindings = [

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

>   { name = "YOUR_DO_CLASS", class_name = "YourDurableObject" }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> ]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
